Optional client certs (#18684)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/certauth.md

    }
}
```

<a name="occ"></a>

## Optional client certificates

This section provides information for apps that must protect a subset of the app with a certificate. For example, a Razor Page or controller in the app might require client certificates. This presents challenges as client certificates:
  
* Are a TLS feature, not an HTTP feature.

> * Are negotiated per-connection and must be be negotiated at the start of the connection before any HTTP data is available. At the start of the connection, only the Server Name Indication (SNI)&dagger; is known. The first request on a connection negotiates the certificate and further requests generally won't be able to renegotiate. Renegotiation is prohibited in HTTP/2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Are negotiated per-connection and must be be negotiated at the start of the connection before any HTTP data is available. At the start of the connection, only the Server Name Indication (SNI)&dagger; is known. The client and server certificates are negotiated prior to the first request on a connection and requests generally won't be able to renegotiate. Renegotiation is prohibited in HTTP/2.
```

    }
}
```

<a name="occ"></a>

## Optional client certificates

This section provides information for apps that must protect a subset of the app with a certificate. For example, a Razor Page or controller in the app might require client certificates. This presents challenges as client certificates:
  
* Are a TLS feature, not an HTTP feature.
* Are negotiated per-connection and must be be negotiated at the start of the connection before any HTTP data is available. At the start of the connection, only the Server Name Indication (SNI)&dagger; is known. The client and server certificates are negotiated prior to the first request on a connection and requests generally won't be able to renegotiate. Renegotiation is prohibited in HTTP/2.

> ASP.NET Core 5 preview 4 and later supports optional client certificates. For more information, see the [Optional certificates sample](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/tree/master/src/Security/Authentication/Certificate/samples/Certificate.Optional.Sample).

Author: > The docs don't link to aspnetcore repo samples anywhere else do they?
See [Authentication samples for ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/authentication/samples?view=aspnetcore-3.1) 
In many place we point to source code.

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/master/aspnetcore/security/authentication/samples.md shows released links. I sometime use a permalink if I need to highlight a line.

I know master will change,  but hopefully for the better. I was planning to use master temporarily until we have a stand alone doc sample.  
I'll change to permalink now.

The following approach supports optional client certificates:

* Set up binding for the domain and subdomain:
  * For example, set up bindings on `contoso.com` and `myClient.contoso.com`. The `contoso.com` host doesn't require a client certificate but `myClient.contoso.com` does.

>   * For more information, see `[TODO - provide links]()`

Reviewer: See for Kestrel https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/servers/kestrel?view=aspnetcore-3.1#listenoptionsusehttps and HttpsConnectionAdapterOptions.ClientCertificateMode 

And for IIS https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/host-and-deploy/iis/?view=aspnetcore-3.1#create-the-iis-site and https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/iis/manage/configuring-security/how-to-set-up-ssl-on-iis#configure-ssl-settings-2

For Http.Sys see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/servers/httpsys?view=aspnetcore-3.1#configure-windows-server and https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2008-R2-and-2008/cc725882(v=ws.10)?redirectedfrom=MSDN#add-sslcert clientcertnegotiation

* Are negotiated per-connection and must be be negotiated at the start of the connection before any HTTP data is available. At the start of the connection, only the Server Name Indication (SNI)&dagger; is known. The client and server certificates are negotiated prior to the first request on a connection and requests generally won't be able to renegotiate. Renegotiation is prohibited in HTTP/2.

ASP.NET Core 5 preview 4 and later adds more convenient support for optional client certificates. For more information, see the [Optional certificates sample](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/tree/9ce4a970a21bace3fb262da9591ed52359309592/src/Security/Authentication/Certificate/samples/Certificate.Optional.Sample).

The following approach supports optional client certificates:

* Set up binding for the domain and subdomain:
  * For example, set up bindings on `contoso.com` and `myClient.contoso.com`. The `contoso.com` host doesn't require a client certificate but `myClient.contoso.com` does.
  * For more information, see:
    * [Kestrel](/fundamentals/servers/kestrel):
      * [ListenOptions.UseHttps](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel#listenoptionsusehttps)

>       * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Https.HttpsConnectionAdapterOptions.ClientCertificateMode>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Server.Kestrel.Https.HttpsConnectionAdapterOptions.ClientCertificateMode>
      * Note Kestrel does not currently support multiple TLS configurations on one binding, you'll need two bindings with unique IPs or ports. See https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/31097
```
